Leveraging OSM (Open Street Maps) to Build a Crowd Sourced Map of PMA (Pretty
Much Anything)

MaptimeLA Loves Open Street Maps (OSM). But did you know it's much more
than just streets and buildings? People from all over the world have
mapped all kinds of things - from water fountains to water falls, from
ferries to funiculars. Why they didn't call it "Open Funicular Maps" we
may never know. But what we *do* know is that you're free to use any of
this data in your own mapping projects.

So join us for an overview of the strategies and tools you can use to
leverage the crowd sourced data in OSM to build a map of just about
anything. And if it's not already in OSM, we'll talk about how to get it
up there.

The goal of the workshop will be for you to walk away with a better
understanding of the capabilities of OSM, and your very own map of
custom OSM data published on the web. Impress your Friends/Moms/Cats!

We'll be working with some CSS, HTML, and Javascript - including the
great Leaflet mapping library. Apart from these, we'll be using some web
based tools to extract the data we need from Open Street Maps.

Homework

Maptime is hands-on, so don't forget to bring your laptop! There are a
few things you can do before hand to prepare for the evening:

- Install a text editor which we'll use to edit the code for your web
  map. Like toothpaste, there are too many choices, and they are all
  pretty much fine. For example https://www.sublimetext.com/3
- Install Python which we'll use as a local server so you can see the
  web map your code generates. https://www.python.org/downloads/ (try
  the 3.5.1 version, but either should be fine)
  If you get hung up, no worries, we can show you at the workshop.
- Set up a GitHub account (https://github.com/) and install git. Git
  comes in a graphical flavor for pointing and clicking: https://desktop.github.com/
  and a command line flavor: https://git-scm.com/. Either is fine.
  We'll use it to publish your map and share the code that powers it.

What is Maptime?

Maptime is, rather literally, time for mapmaking. Our mission is to open
the doors of cartographic possibility to anyone interested by creating a
time and space for collaborative learning, exploration, and map creation
using mapping tools and technologies.

This open learning environment for all levels and degrees of knowledge
offers intentional support for the beginner. Maptime is simultaneously
flexible and structured, creating space for workshops, ongoing projects
with a shared goal, and independent/collaborative work time.

Inspiration for Maptime comes from both hack nights and knitting
circles. Both are models of spaces for people to create and learn
together. Our goal is to provide this space with an open heart and
without pretension. You can bring your own projects to work on, or just
hang out and socialize or ask questions. Some people are experts, and
some people are just getting started, but all of us are learning, so why
not do it together?

